Cluster #0
Topic: Chesapeake Bay
They worry that the Asian oysters could bring new diseases or adapt to the Chesapeake so well that they squeeze out native species of oysters and clams.
So the bay foundation decided to go to court, asking a federal judge in Washington D.C. to speed up the EPA's formal response.
Since then, experts on the bay say it has become only slightly healthier.
Without roots to hold it, in many places the mud simply washed away.
People remember favors there.

Cluster #1
Topic: Grizzly Bears
Tom France, regional director for the National Wildlife Federation, said his organization believes removing bears from federal protection in the Yellowstone area is long overdue.
These bears live in the same three states and Washington.
The federal official most alarmed about the recent spike in illegal bear killings is Chris Servheen, grizzly-bear recovery coordinator for Fish and Wildlife.
Grizzlies are thriving in Alaska, where more than 30,000 of them live.
But the fate of the nut is now in doubt.

Cluster #2
Topic: Offshore Gas Leak
The 36 workers aboard the platform pumped heavy drilling mud into the leaking injection well.
Statoil ASA said Tuesday it expects to restart its Snorre A offshore petroleum platform later this week, almost a month after a natural gas leak shut down operations.
Royal Dutch/Shell Group of Cos. said Friday that it shut down its 140,000-barrel per day Draugen offshore oil field because of damage to its oil-loading equipment.
Statoil was founded by the government in 1972 to oversee the nation's petroleum interests, and employs about 17,000 people in 25 countries.

Cluster #3
Topic: Shepard Beating Death Trial
Henderson and Aaron James McKinney, both 21, are charged with murder and face the death penalty if convicted.
Henderson and Aaron McKinney, both 21, are charged with murder and face the death penalty if convicted.
George W. Bush and others who question the need for special hate-crime statutes.
All crimes ... aren't about hate.
He wasn't just a gay man.
By the end of the day, 15 of 71 prospective jurors in the first pool had been dismissed.

Cluster #4
Topic: Mangrove Forests
Scientists don't have comprehensive historical data about marine damage that tsunamis can cause, especially one of this magnitude.
According to the minister, early information and data on the condition of the seabed around the epicenter of the quake would be extremely useful for establishing an early warning system against earthquake, tsunami and volcanic eruption.
Mangroves grow in brackish water, in some delta areas where rivers meet the sea.
The agency reported one case in Thailand where the mangroves also damaged shallow coral reefs.

Cluster #5
Topic: Red Food Dye
Europe-wide rules introduced in June 2003 controlling products like the Sudan 1 dye were not being enforced, the EU executive said.
The Food Standards Agency sparked an international food safety alert on Feb. 18 when it announced that a sauce contaminated with the dye had been used in hundreds of British foods and exported to several European and Caribbean countries and to North America.
It is not allowed to be added to food in the Europe Union.
The 38 new items include certain sausages, seasonings and pizzas.

Cluster #6
Topic: Vioxx
Seven weeks before Merck & Co. pulled the arthritis drug Vioxx off the market because of safety concerns, federal drug regulators downplayed the significance of scientific findings citing the increased risks, documents released Thursday show.
The FDA said such discussions are typical before scientific findings are published.
FitzGerald also challenged Pfizer's contention that no science shows increased risk from Celebrex.
But the study was halted when it indicated a heightened risk of cardiovascular complications.
For patients on blood thinners such as Coumadin, the combination could be highly risky without proper supervision.

Cluster #7
Topic: Obesity
Experts warn people who are overweight have increased tendencies toward cardiovascular and cerebral disease, diabetes, and kidney and liver disease.
About 11 percent of national men and 14 percent of women had diabetes and the rate is expected to rise in the following years, according to the study released by UAE's medical center today.
The study shows that the 12 percent obesity is close to the standard in developed countries.
Insulin was discovered in 1921.

Cluster #8
Topic: Debra La Fave
In August, the student's mother gave police notes she found, addressed to her daughter from fellow students.
The plea agreement also was designed to resolve similar charges in Marion County, where Lafave was scheduled to appear in court Dec. 8.
If convicted at trial in Hillsborough County, Florida, she could have faced up to 15 years in prison on each count.
All along her attorney has turned the spotlight to his advantage.
BC-FBC-PUNT-BLOCK (Tallahassee) -- Inside the Game: The art of the punt block.

Cluster #9
Topic: Mad Cow Disease
Ireland may have suffered its first homegrown case of the human form of mad cow disease after a man in his early 20s was hospitalized in Dublin for suspected variant Crutzfeld-Jakob Disease.
Some 141 people are known to have died of vCJD in Britain.
The hospital issued an alert more than a week ago saying preliminary tests on the unidentified patient produced a diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
However, Chen said, if there is any doubt over the quality of the beef, the ban will not be lifted at that time.

Cluster #10
Topic: Austrian Avalanches
An avalanche crashed through a small Austrian resort on Tuesday, killing at least eight people and leaving dozens missing, in what officials feared could turn out to be Austria's worst snow disaster in years.
Three others in the house survived, but she was killed when a steel beam pierced her chest.
(Central America-Clinton-Summit)WARSAW -- Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski on Tuesday signed a law to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.
Ng looked down at the defendants' table as the verdicts were read and showed no reaction.

Cluster #11
Topic: South Korean Wire Tapping
The 19097 conversation is between Hong Seok-Hyun, a brother-in-law of Samsung Group chief Lee Kun-Hee, and a top official of the group.
South Korea's spy agency publicly apologized Friday for illegally wiretapping telephone calls years ago, revealed by the leakage of a taped 1997 conversation of an alleged payment by the Samsung Group to presidential candidates.
A Samsung executive was accused of donating illicit funds to political parties while dozens of lawmakers, politicians and aides to Roh were arrested.
He is a brother-in-law of Samsung Group chief Lee Kun-Hee.

Cluster #12
Topic: Agent Orange
Hoang Dinh Cau, chairman of the National Committee for Investigation of Defects from Toxic Chemicals Used During the Vietnam War, said recent studies show dioxin levels are dropping, along with high rates of birth defects, in the affected areas.
Nhan said the government's strained budget might have delayed assistance, pointing out that a laboratory test of a sample for Agent Orange costs dlrs 3,000.
Vietnam decided to undertake next month a nation-wide census of Agent Orange victims, Vietnam's English daily Vietnam News reported Saturday.

Cluster #13
Topic: Papua Tsunami
Foreign Affairs Minister Alexander Downer said a Royal Australian Air Force C-130 Hercules aircraft now in Papua New Guinea on training exercises would be diverted to deliver relief supplies.
The death toll so far from the tsunami that struck the coastline near the town of Aitape in the West Sepik (Sandaun) province Friday night, was officially announced 64 and many more people were missing.
A tsunami spawned by a 7.0 magnitude earthquake crashed into Papua New Guinea's north coast, crushing villages and leaving hundreds missing, officials said Sunday.

Cluster #14
Topic: Helios Crash
a.m. (0730 GMT) _ The Greek Defense Ministry issues a Renegade alert, a standard aviation procedure when a plane fails to respond to the control tower.
In October 1999, a Learjet carrying the golfer Payne Stewart and four other people crashed in South Dakota after flying hundreds of miles on autopilot.
A senior official at the Public Order Ministry speculated that a sudden drop in cabin pressure could have caused the disaster.
Crash scene investigators wearing surgical masks said most bodies appeared to be intact with some badly burnt.

Cluster #15
Topic: Murder Van Gogh
Theo van Gogh, 47, who directed television series and wrote columns and books, courted controversy during his entire career.
Both men had outspoken views on Islam and many other issues and were always trying passionately to stir public debate.
Both men had outspoken views on Islam and many other issues and were always trying passionately to stir public debate.
Muslim organisations in the Netherlands also rushed to reject the killing in similar terms.
A feminist politician who starred in van Gogh's film accused authorities of failing to prevent a crime foretold.

Cluster #16
Topic: Baluchistan Uprising
On Sunday, about 3,000 people, mostly women and children of local Bugti tribesmen, left Dera Bugti, a day after 3,000 government employees and their families, fearing more fighting in the town, located some 300 kilometers (185 miles) southeast of Quetta, Baluchistan's provincial capital.
Raziq Bugti, spokesman for the provincial government of Baluchistan, said the exodus was sparked in the town of Dera Bugti, 245 kilometres southeast of Quetta after the chief told officials and paramilitary forces to leave.

Cluster #17
Topic: Jon Benet Ramsey
The Ramsey interviews arrive as Boulder, Colo., District Attorney Alex Hunter decides whether to take the case to a grand jury.
Another business partner of Ramsey, Jay Elowsky, pleaded guilty earlier this year to misdemeanor assault charge after he brandished a baseball bat at two men he thought were newspaper reporters.
To discourage gawkers, the men promptly planted three large spruce trees to block the street view.
The Ramseys now live in Atlanta.
Police say her parents, John and Patsy Ramsey, remain under suspicion.

Cluster #18
Topic: Coral Reefs
More than 58 percent of the world's coral reefs are endangered because of pollution, the over-harvesting of reef fish and other human factors, the World Conservation Union (IUCN) said Friday.
They do know that in 1883, when the Krakatoa volcano exploded and sent a giant tsunami washing over Indonesia, coral heads that weighed hundreds of tons were tossed hundreds of feet inland.
The Amorgos, carrying 60,000 tons of iron ore, was heading for Nantong in mainland China from Singapore when it developed mechanical problems and began to drift.

Cluster #19
Topic: Malaysia Resort Abduction
Muslim rebels who have been holding 27 Filipinos hostage at a remote mountain stronghold in the Philippines claimed responsibility Tuesday for also abducting about 20 people from a nearby Malaysian tourist island.
Muslim rebels in the Philippines who are seeking the release of militants jailed in the World Trade Center bombing case claimed responsibility Tuesday for the Malaysian kidnapping.
Sipadan island is a popular resort especially for scuba-divers.
Describing the incident as unexpected, Abdullah said it should prompt the police to review the security of territorial waters off Sabah.

Cluster #20
Topic: Rafik Hariri
Hariri, 60, a Sunni Muslim, was killed in a powerful explosion in the Lebanese capital of Beirut earlier in the day.
On Monday, Hariri and eight other people were killed in a huge explosion, which occurred as Hariri's motorcade was passing by in the seafront area of the Lebanese capital Beirut.
Former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri was killed in a powerful explosion in central Beirut on Monday, Lebanese officials and medical sources said.

Cluster #21
Topic: Bomb Khartoum
Hundreds of Sudanese trudged through the mud on a rainy Friday to gather by the twisted rubble and concrete of the factory heavily damaged by U.S. missiles.
Ambassador Bill Richardson defended the air strikes in a letter Thursday to Turk that said the moves complied with the rights of states to self-defense as enshrined in the U.N. charter and international law.
There was little security late Friday and visitors were allowed to enter the deserted factory unhindered.
Police tried to block the civilians, mostly women and children, from entering the factory compound.

Cluster #22
Topic: Soeharto Investigation
Two committees have been formed by the public to investigate the Soeharto clan's wealth.
Fonjallaz denied that the investigation into Soeharto's wealth was on the agenda during his meeting with the attorney general.
Without such a letter, it will be hard for the team to ask foreign banks to open their records due to long-established banking secrecy policies, he added.
Soedjono himself was not available for comment.
Christianto said, however, crony business practices and special privileges had not been the monopoly of the Soeharto family and cronies.

Cluster #23
Topic: Ephedra
Aside from the turf battle between the supplement industry and regulators, the dispute raises crucial questions: What is the distinction between these herbal products, which may contain naturally occurring chemicals as potent as those in any drug, and drugs themselves?
Peggy Knapp, the first co-host, started in 1986, but left after the first season.
Most who testified were connected to the industry that provides ephedrine-based dietary supplements or stimulants.
Drugs containing ephedra vulgaris, drug-making chemicals and mental medicines increased notably in 1997.

Cluster #24
Topic: Parkinson Disease
A new robotic microscope that follows a brain cell in the lab from a normal state to its death has led researchers to a surprising finding that appears to debunk a long-standing theory about Huntington's disease.
Three years ago, Bush limited federal funding of embryonic stem cell research to the 78 stem cell lines in existence.
The rats that had been exercised had lost significantly fewer neurons than the sedentary rats.
Arafat caught his cold last Tuesday, while walking in the windy courtyard of his Ramallah headquarters, the aides said.

Cluster #25
Topic: Head Injuries
According to a survey by Asian Development Bank (ADB), Motorcyclists and pedestrians are by far the biggest proportion of those killed or injured.
Road traffic fatalities in China are predicted to increase to almost half a million deaths each year by 2020 unless urgent action is taken, the WHO said in a statement.
The resolution of these head-related issues could have far-reaching health and financial impact, given that nearly 18 million people play soccer in the United States.
Dente said highway authorities are determined to enforce basic road safety measures.

Cluster #26
Topic: Bird Flu
And of the six others confirmed of being infected of the H5N1 virus, two have recovered and been discharged from hospital and four others are still under treatment with their condition satisfactory, according to the DH update.
Another victim, a two-year-old boy, who was hospitalized with fever in November, later fully recovered.
It is still unclear in which way human being catches the virus.
Local chicken farmers say that sales have dropped between 30 percent to 50 percent over the past weeks.
Three more people remain hospitalized for the illness.

Cluster #27
Topic: Recall Food United States
Two batches of Heinz baby food have been recalled in Hong Kong following a similar action in the United States over worries they may contain high levels of lead, the Health Department said Monday.
The number of people who survive cancer for five years has also increased, as has the number of people who have AIDS or are living with transplanted organs.
Recorded information is available 24 hours a day.
They also should avoid soft cheeses, such as feta or Brie, and avoid food from deli counters.

Cluster #28
Topic: Rain Forest Destruction
Angola, Liberia, Nigeria, Gabon, Congo, Cameroon, Sao Tome and Principe, Tanzania, Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire, Zaire, Equatorial Guinea and the Central African Republic are members of the African Lumber Organization.
Experts from across China today called for urgent action to protect the dwindling number of black gibbons in southern China's Hainan province.
Protecting the area means protecting an important gene storehouse, Han says.
Under the program tropical rain-forest trees will be planted, along with tropical fruit trees and economic trees.

Cluster #29
Topic: Dioxin Poisoning Yuschenko
The illness that disfigured the face of opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko resulted from poisoning by the toxic substance dioxin, which might have been placed deliberately in his food, Austrian doctors who treated him told reporters in Vienna on Saturday.
Yanukovich said Monday he could not have known anything about the alleged government plot because as prime minister he did not oversee the security structures that could have possibly orchestrated the attack.
Ukrainian opposition leader and presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko was the victim of poisoning by dioxin, his doctor said Saturday.

Cluster #30
Topic: Eating Disorders
She goes without eating all day, and starting at 6 p.m. she eats nonstop, whatever she can get her hands on.
Montaner established the nonprofit Lifelines Foundation for Eating Disorders with the goal of establishing the first acute-care facility in Texas dedicated solely to treating eating disorders.
But Walsh of Columbia said that would be merely a cosmetic change.
Both Hecht and Walker are medically underweight but, as part of ongoing therapy, prefer not to discuss numbers.
Other friends helped her find professional help.

Cluster #31
Topic: Hurricane Floyd
Tropical storm Floyd strengthened Friday to become the fourth Atlantic hurricane this year, moving through the north Atlantic on a path that will take it north of the Caribbean islands and toward the eastern United States.
Still, it was recommended that people along the U.S. southeast monitor the storm's course this weekend.
Floyd grew unexpectedly into a monster of a storm on Sunday.
Instead, she just bought hurricane supplies.
Elsewhere, Floyd was joined Sunday by Tropical Storm Gert, which formed midway between Africa and Barbados.

Cluster #32
Topic: Maryland Oysters
They worry that the Asian oysters could bring new diseases or adapt to the Chesapeake so well that they squeeze out native species of oysters and clams.
Among the bay's problems, one of the worst has been the decline of the native oyster Crassostrea virginica, once so populous that its reefs poked out of the water.
The oysters were spawned at the University of Maryland's Center for Environmental Science, then planted in the managed reserves, where they grew under the supervision of scientists.
People remember favors there.

Cluster #33
Topic: Whale Conservation Japan
Conservation Minister Chris Carter told NZPA, a news agency, that he understands the Japanese want to add 80 of each of hampback and fin whales to its legal kill lists.
Whaling opponents fear that pro-whaling countries like Japan and Norway may have a voting majority at the commission for the first time since the 1986 whaling ban was imposed.
Japan has threatened to withdraw from the commission if it does not get approval for increased whaling.
Tokyo is believed to have the votes needed to get its request approved at the Ulsan meeting.

Cluster #34
Topic: Identity Theft
Then last fall, she said, she watched an NBC News report on how thieves needed only a name and address to steal a person's identity, using that information to set up fraudulent credit accounts.
After Frank found out about the crime, the Laguna Niguel, Calif., lawyer spent hundreds of hours talking on the phone and writing letters before her record was clean.
The impostor, Tracy Lloyd, eventually pleaded guilty to six counts of felony fraud but spent no time behind bars, Frank said.

Cluster #35
Topic: Columbine Massacre
The sheriff's initial estimate of as many as 25 dead in the Columbine High massacre was off the mark apparently because the six SWAT teams that swept the building counted some victims more than once.
Columbine, a hill in Clement Park that borders the high school's baseball fields.
A couple of hours after Chatfield opened, Nancy Hoag decided to pull her daughter, Melissa, 15, out.
Fifteen people, including the two killers, died Tuesday in a shooting and bombing spree at Columbine High School.

Cluster #36
Topic: Mt St Helens
Air sampling had detected only tiny amounts of the volcanic gases that new magma produces, but scientists said the gases could be sealed inside the system or have been dissolved by water on the mountain.
Steam eruption shakes Mount St Helens US volcano Mount St. Helens roared to life Friday, spewing a giant plume of steam and ash into the sky and raising fears of a new larger eruption.
The explosion killed 57 people, triggered the largest landslide in recorded history and blew 520 million tons of ash eastward across the United States.

Cluster #37
Topic: Songhua River
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said in Beijing on Thursday that China has informed Russia of the water pollution situation in the river, a tributary of the Heilong River (called Amur River in Russia) on the border between the Russian far east and China.
Currently, the water supply has been cut off in Harbin, capital of northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, as the city's water source, Songhua River, has been heavily polluted.
The flow is expected to return to 600 cubic meters per second in the evening.

Cluster #38
Topic: Diallo Trial
The parents of Amadou Diallo plan to meet with the Bronx district attorney on Wednesday to receive a preview of the criminal charges that the grand jury voted to bring against the four New York City police officers who killed their son seven weeks ago.
Not surprisingly, the officers' lawyers embrace the same irrefutable science to argue a opposite position.
McMellon and Carroll got out of their maroon Ford Taurus and approached Diallo on the stoop.

Cluster #39
Topic: Unabomber Trial
Prosecutors have said they hope to decide before January whether to seek the death penalty, which Kaczynski could also face for the two California bombing deaths.
It is expected that several hundred prospects may be eliminated quickly because the trial and selection process could cause the trial to last for six months, including the jury courtroom selection, which is scheduled to begin November 12.
Debevoise also heard arguments on a defense request to transfer the New Jersey case to Sacramento, where a November trial date has been set.

Cluster #40
Topic: Threat To Frogs
Almost 150 species of amphibians have apparently gone extinct and at least one-third of the rest are facing imminent threats that could soon wipe them out, according to a worldwide assessment by scientists published Thursday.
After inspecting the plastic film containers, agents found the brightly colored animals hidden inside.
Typical symptoms included changes in skin colour, lethargy and weight loss, she said.
But the Yanacocha mining company, 51-percent owned by Denver-based Newmont Mining Corp., still has a serious image problem to overcome.

Cluster #41
Topic: Tsunami Indonesia
Indonesia's official earthquake and tsunami death toll rose by more than 100 people Wednesday to 94,200, the health ministry said.
Japan has provided some 500 million US dollar fund for tsunami- affected countries including Indonesia, the Maldives and Sri Lanka.
The ministry, which has said it expects the number of dead on hardest-hit Sumatra island to top 100,000, had not increased its count since Monday, when it jumped by 14,000 to 94,081.

Cluster #42
Topic: Giant Panda
The panda was critically ill and had fallen into a coma when she was spotted Sunday morning by a passing driver beside a road six km from the famous Wolong giant panda research and conservation center, the paper said on Tuesday.
China built its first natural preserve for giant pandas and began to ban poaching in the 1950s.
The Baishuijiang State Nature Reserve is home to more than 100 giant pandas.
million US dollars) for nature reserve construction from the central government.
China has 163 giant pandas in captivity.

Cluster #43
Topic: Robert Blake Murder Trial
Blake became physically ill at the sight of his wounded wife because years of portraying violent people hadn't prepared him to actually kill someone, Samuels said.
And Blake's case has an added problem.
Defense lawyer M. Gerald Schwartzbach countered that the evidence does not support the theory that Blake shot the 44-year-old Bakley.
Blake's .38-caliber revolver was not the gun used to kill Bakley.
After closing arguments, the jury could get the case on Friday.
That they met?

Cluster #44
Topic: Lynndie England
England went on to say she had deliberately done wrong in posing for other pictures, including one that showed seven naked prisoners forced to form a human pyramid.
She pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy, four counts of maltreating prisoners and one count of dereliction of duty.
Ambuhl was discharged from the Army without serving prison time.
England will then receive the lesser of the two sentences.
When the proceedings, at Fort Hood, Texas, resume on Tuesday, a military jury will be seated to hear evidence on sentencing.

Cluster #45
Topic: Joran Van Der Sloot
An employer of Croes said the disc jockey knew one of the Surinamese brothers through an Internet cafe.
Croes was a DJ on the Tattoo, which offers nightly dining, dancing and swimming, Wiggins said.
(pp-maf)
But he conceded the furor over Holloway's disappearance has dented Aruba's image as the safest island in the Caribbean.
E-mail: jscottajc.com
She did not elaborate, however, and also declined to say what she knew about Croes.
(mn-lja)

52.6435899734 seconds runtime
